Signature Assignment
	The central point I want to focus on for this paper is that my experiences from this course have changed me. What I mean by that is both the immersion at St.Benedict and my forty volunteer hours at Hope Center have opened my eyes to new perspectives on life. I am now grateful for what I have and have access to. I am also thankful for those special people who work at St.Benedict and the Hope Center. It is not an easy task to work with individuals who are experiencing homelessness. I now appreciate those individuals who work or volunteer to help others.
	Before this course, my experience with volunteer work was limited. I would volunteer at my town's fire department and pack goodie bags for the elementary schools that the fire department taught fire safety to. My other volunteer experience was at a church where we made dry meals that would be sent to a different country. The other volunteers at the church that I talked to all belonged to the church. Everyone was thankful that I was there giving up my time to make the meals. Both of my volunteer experiences made me feel good for having a positive impact on others. 
When this course started and I had to pick a place to volunteer, I was uncomfortable. Terri at the Hope Center was super helpful with scheduling, she would call me and talk till we figured something out that worked for both of us. Her putting that much effort into me being able to volunteer was something I am appreciative of. I was worried about the people who volunteer at Hope Center and the individuals who use the clothing store. I was worried about who I had to interact with thinking they would be gross and dirty even before my first day of volunteering.  I now realize that was an implicit bias I have. I thought that everyone experiencing homelessness had ripped clothes, long facial hair, and was stinky. 
My experience at Hope Center had more of an impact on me than the overnight at St. Benedict. At Hope Center, I was able to talk with the staff, the other volunteers, and the customers. There are multiple volunteers that I want to address but Karol and Tony will do. Karol volunteers every Tuesday morning. Another assumption I had was that all volunteers are just old retired people who have nothing else to do. While talking to Karol I found out that she rides the bus to and from the Hope Center. Karol also has another job that she works during the week.
 I didn’t spend much time with Karol but I did talk a lot with Tony. Tony lives in Oconomowoc and drives 30 minutes to volunteer every Thursday morning. I asked Tony why she volunteers and why Hope Center. She said that the priest at her church told the church members that Hope Center needed volunteers. Conveniently at the same time the old place she was volunteering at was moving so they didn’t need her anymore. So she came to Hope Center and has been there since. Tony does fit my stereotype in the fact that she is retired. It was actually really sad to leave on my last day of volunteering because Tony was there. She gave me a hug goodbye, which I felt was the right thing to do because of all the time we spent together and everything we talked about. I would even say that she’s a friend of mine now. 
Seeing who actually volunteered at Hope Center changed my mind about volunteers. It also made me feel guilty when I stopped because those people are still volunteering and making a difference. All of the volunteers were super nice and welcoming. I think once I am out of school I will find a place to volunteer at once a month to have an impact. The Hope Center has so many customers every day that they are open. 
Seeing the clothing get taken and repurposed was also a good feeling. I donate my clothes to Goodwill but from now on I will bring them to Hope Center because they give it to people in need for free. So I know that the clothes are appreciated and getting used. There were also super nice household items such as plates and bowls that could be taken. While going through the donations I would get excited whenever I would find men's clothes or men's jackets because that is something they do not have much of. Another thing that I loved was when people would go and buy new packs of underwear and socks just to donate to the Hope Center because we were low on that size or specific thing. Knowing that there are people in the world who care about others and not only themselves is heartwarming. I see so much competition for success and individualism in this world that the Hope Center made me feel good. 
There were times at Hope Center where I got upset. After the clothing shop closes to the customers we have to go through and pick up all of the hangers and clothing items off the ground that fell or were left behind. The store was always a mess afterwards which is frustrating because I went through and made it look nice every day I was there. Children were always running around the shop. 
One problem I did notice was that we only had one Spanish-speaking volunteer and whenever she wasn't there the language barrier was a problem when checking out clothes. I think that is unfair to them because they should have someone who can speak Spanish so those individuals can get the help they need when checking out. I was also surprised with how many Hispanic customers we had. It did not cross my mind till right now that any of them could be immigrants. I know other people who would have immediately thought that the Hispanic customers were all immigrants. Which is clearly something you should not assume. 
There was a time while on the immersion when I assumed that St. Benedict was dirty and an uncomfortable place to be. As soon as we got there and put our stuff down to sleep Collin noticed a cockroach on his backpack. I had never actually seen a cockroach before this. When that happened I all of a sudden was hyper aware of bugs. There were bugs in the bathroom but that makes sense because of the moisture. After seeing the cockroach I 100% had judgments about the place thinking that it was all full of bugs. When Kenny gave us the tour of the rest of St.Benedicts I felt better. Seeing the church and the other rooms of the building made it feel more personal. 
At the end of the immersion my negative thoughts about St.Benedict were gone. I told my family that it was not as bad as I was making it sound. Reflecting on the experience I am glad that I was able to set aside judgment because then I was able to understand what St.Benedict does. I asked Kenny the question “is it hard to get employees?” and he said that it is really hard to get employees to work because of how mentally draining it is. At that point I did not care that there was a cockroach in their basement. St.Benedict does so much for the people that a cockroach should not ruin my perspective on the good that they do.

I am double majoring in criminal justice and sociology and I think it is super important to have cross-cultural skills in both of those fields of work. In future work it is important to understand culture and to acknowledge bias because you can’t get rid of it. Cultural competence is the “understanding and acceptance of the beliefs, values, and ethics of others” (Allen, 2011). For sociology, if I started a career in social work it would be important to understand people's backgrounds and be open minded rather than ethnocentric. I want to make the people I work with feel comfortable. You cannot think that your way of life is the correct way and better way to do things. 
In future work knowing about culture will make a difference. Culture is shared, learned, taken for granted, symbolic, and varies across time and place. Culture is defined as a “complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, laws, custom, and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society”(Monaghan, 2000). There is no one definition of culture. To understand culture you need to be open minded, ask questions, and do research. Cultural competence will only positively impact my future work. I will be able to build strong relationships with individuals. That in response will help me go farther in my career.
As I noted in the beginning, I am now a different person than I was before this course. I have now seen how others live. I learned that I take my bed for granted. That I should be thankful to have food to eat for every meal. I don’t have to worry about not having clean clothes. I have access to a warm shower and hygiene products. I appreciate the individuals who work to make a difference in someone else's life. After this course I will probably look into volunteering because I liked the instant positive impact it had on others.

References
Monaghan, J., & Just, P. (2000). Social and Cultural Anthropology: A very short introduction. Oxford University Press. 
Allen, B. J. (2011). Difference matters: Communicating social identity. Waveland Press, Inc. 
